---
permalink: /seacuke/
title: "Parastichopus californicus"

---
In 2018, a man in Washington State was fined $1.8 million dollars for underreporting, processing, and selling illegally harvested sea cucumber. In 2017, a father and son in California were fined $17 million for smuggling sea cucumbers. So what about this strange and unfamiliar creature is so compelling people risk jail time and multi-million dollar fines? Well my friend, you have come to the right place. 

Most people on the West coast will only encounter sea cucumbers at public aquariums and in the occasional tidepool, however, sea cucumbers are a widely sought after delicacy in Eastern Asia. This may come as a suprise to many of us. I can't attest to how they taste, but I can say they have very thick and tough skin. This skin and the muscles lining the inside of the sea cucumber are what captures the appetite of some. They are either dried and fermented or served fresh often with winter melon or shittake mushrooms. 

In addition to their gastronomic uses, sea cucumbers are also believed to possess medicinal properties and their is some science to back that up. Numerous studies have fun sea cucumber extracts to have cancer fighting properties. What exactly is the compound responsible for those properties is yet to be discovered.

Aside from their economical and medicinal importance, sea cucumber also possess a more entertaining side. Their already bizarre appearance is complimented by a bizarre behavior. When attacked, they will eviscerate their internal organs. In less technical speak, they literally poop their guts out when frightened. They are able to detach their stomach from their eosphagus and push it, along with their intestines, lungs, and gonads, out of the butt when they are attacked. There is some discussion around whether this is intended to scare the assailent or provide a tasty morsel, but the end goal is that the sea cucumber to escapes. 

For most "normal" animals, literally pooping their guts and lungs out would result in rapid death. For sea cucumbers, it is a mere inconvience. In about three weeks, they will have completely regrown those internal organs. In addition to this already incredible superpower, they are also able to heal any deep cuts within a day or two of the injury. Imagine being stabbed and being completely healed in two days with barely any scars. 

I would forgive you if you thought sea cucumbers couldn't possibly be more incredible. But they have another superpower up their figurative sleeve. During extreme weather conditions, such as when the water temperature is too hot or too cold for sea cucumbers, they will enter a period of dormancy. During this time, they stop moving and completely absorb their internal organs. During this time, they have close to zero metabolic activity. When the water temperature swings back to tolerable, they then regrow the internal organs. 

As an astute reader, you must be asking yourself how they are able to not only survive, but also grow new organs, without being able to eat or breathe. Many sea cucumber researchers would also like an answer to that question. Their is some evidence that they are able to absorb nutrients from the surrounding water directly into their tissue. 

At this point, I hope you are convinced this creatures are not only important, but also interesting. Interesting enough in fact, to be worth studying. Which is what I am doing. The sea cucumber I study is called the Californian Giant Sea Cucumber, or in science Parastichopus californicus. It is a species of sea cucumber found from Baja California up to the farthest western Aleutian islands and into the Bering sea. Across this range it is found in waters as deep as 1000 feet and as shallow as tide pools. 

This species is commercially harvested from the wild across its range. In recent years there has been a growing interest in trying to cultivate them too. In particular, research has found they do quite well when raised with oysters and actually improve the oyster's health too. 

Additionally, there is also quite a bit of interest in understanding how sea cucumbers are able to regrow their organs and heal so fast. Imagine if we were able apply their ability to humans? People who are badly hurt could heal much faster than normal. I doubt we will be engineering sea cucumber genes into humans anytime soon. But maybe their is some protein or drug we could derive from sea cucumbers which would increase our own innate healing abilites. Additionally, identifying the compounds responsibile for their anti-cancer properties could have incredible uses in fighting cancers. 

Their dormancy ablities also have applications in space travel and medicine. With current technology, space travel has serious health risks. The greatest risk is running out of food, water, and oxygen. Being able to enter an intense state of dormancy could significantly reduce the amount consumed. Additionally, decreases our metabolism reduces the risk of cancers developing due to radiation exposure from space. In medince, a patient who is badly injured could be put into a dormant state such that bad injuries such as internal bleeding or organ damage could be dealt with while the patient is unresponsive and metabolically inactive. This means, they wouldn't react negatively to the injury and their body could heal slowly without immenient death being a problem. 

All these potential applications require knowing more about sea cucumbers. The core essence of every living organism can be found in what is called a genome. A genome consists of all the genetic information about the organism. This information is encoded in long strings of molecules called DNA. Certain sequences of DNA molecules are called genes and tell the cells of an organism what to do. Essentially a really complicated instructions manual written in a completely different language and also microscopic. Each cell in an organism has a genome. If we want to know why an organism is able to do something like regrow internal organs. We would want to look at the genes in the genome. Some genes may be expressed in one cell, but not in a different cell in the sea cucumber. 

Before we can do any of that though, we first need to sequence the genome. This is not a simply task. Sequencing involves isolating the DNA from the cells of the sea cucumber. Then we need to purify the DNA so there is no other molecules that could potentially impact the sequencing machines ability to read the sequence of DNA molecules. Once the genome has been sequenced, then the real fun begins.

Genomes contain really really really long sequences of DNA. Modern DNA sequencing machines are unable to read those really long sequences in one shot. So the DNA sequences have to be broken up into shorter fragments. Once sequenced, the scientist then has to try and align the fragmented DNA so that the sequences are complete. This is difficult and requires a lot of time on computers using software to "assemble" those sequences. 

If the assembly goes well, then we need to identify the important parts of the genome. Genomes contain a lot of repetetitive regions which do nothing interesting. Hidden between those regions are genes and other useful bits. Identifying and assigning function to those interesting bits is called annotating. Genomes without annotations are simply strings meaningless letters. Once annotated, then scientists can begin using the genome to study sea cucumbers. 

My project is to sequence, assemble, and annotate the genome of the Californian Giant Sea Cucumber so that those studying its incredible abilities can have access to the code that gives the Californian Sea Cucumber its superpowers. 
