---
title: "13-08-19 Lab Notebook Entry"

---

## Purpose:
QC on previously extracted DNA using Gel electrophoresis and Nanodrop

### Nanodrop

1. Blanked twice using DI water
2. 1 uL of sample was placed on the Nanodrop
3. Nanodrop was cleaned using kimwipes and ethanol after each test and then blanked again

#### Results

|Sample|test #|A260|A260/A280|DNA conc (ng/uL)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|1|11.356|1.91|567.8|
||2|17.518|1.90|875.9|
||3|19.039|1.91|951.9|
|2|1|11.4|1.88|570.0|
||2|11.306|1.88|565.3|
||3|11.426|1.88|571.3|

#### Thoughts
A260/A280 ratios for DNA should be ~1.8. So this is definitely in the ballpark. I have read some sources that say a ratio above 1.8 indicates really pure DNA. Which it might be. However, according to [this](https://www.ogt.com/resources/literature/483_understanding_and_measuring_variations_in_dna_sample_quality) website. There could be two possible sources of contamination: phenol and RNA. Phenol is unlikely as that is partially the purpose of the phase lock gels, which seems to work when performing the phenol/chloroform part of the extraction. The RNA as a source of contamination is possible as I did not add RNAse to the lysate. I was counting on there already being RNAse in it to do the deed, but also it doesn't particularly matter at this point and resources are precious. When I get better at isolating DNA and am getting close to actually sequencing, then I will add the RNAse. The website does note that running the sample on a gel will reveal some tell tale details. So I did, with some amusing results. See below.

### Gel Electrophoresis

Many mistakes were made over the course of making and running this gel that required doing it several times. I won't transcribe those details here. 

Reagents and Materials

|Qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|.4|g|Agarose|
|40|mL|.5x TBE|
|.5|uL|stock Ethidium Bromide|

#### 1% agarose Gel Prep.
1. mixed agarose and TBE together in a beaker
2. microwaved for 1 min
> It boiled over sligthly at ~30 secs at which point I stopped the microwave and removed it
3. Added ethidium bromide
4. Poured Gel and let cool

#### Running the Gel

Parameters: 100 Volts  
Buffer: 5X TBE (not a typo)  
Start time: 1808  

Gel layout

|Lane/Sample|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
||5 uL Ladder|1 uL #1|1 uL #1|1 uL #1|1 uL #2|1 uL #2|1 uL #2|

> Ladder Dye appeared to float out of the gel wells and none stayed in. Weird. 

> Gel was checked at 1908 under UV light. There was nothing. No dye, No DNA, nothing. Reloaded lanes with double quantity. Buffer was extremely hot and foaming. Voltage was lowered to 50 volts

Start time: 1924  
Checked: 1948   
> DNA is faintly flourescent. Ladder dye isn't present, but there is some flourescence. Appears ladder hasn't separated and is close to the top of the gel. There is a faint smear way below the ladder. Is that RNA or really fragmented DNA   

Checked: 2027  

> Bands too faint to resolve. Gonna make up some ethidium bromide and restain the gel

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2019-08-13/20190813_191344.jpg"  %}

#### Ethidium Bromide stock solution

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|40 |mg |Ethidium Bromide|
|~2 |mL |DI water|

conc. = (40mg/2 mL)= 20mg/1 mL

#### Staining Solution (.5 ug/mL)
For 100 uL water @ .5 uL/mL

(100 mL)(.5 ug/1mL)=.00005g EtBr 

(.00005g EtBr)(10mL/.02g EtBr)=.025 mL EtBr solution  

> Note: This was definitely wrong oops
 
Checked: 2111

> Nothing

#### Gel Staining 
start: 2125
check: 2141  

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2019-08-13/20190813_211544.jpg"  %}

> Waaaaaay too stained. LMAO

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2019-08-13/20190813_214526.jpg"  %}

#### Destaining Gel

1 M MgSO4 prep

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|24.6|g|MgSO4|
|100|ml|DI water|

1 mM MgSO4 Prep

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|.1 |mL|1 M MgSO4|
|99.9|mL|DI water|

Gel was soaked in the 1 mM MgSO4 solution. Didn't really work. That's what I get for looking online for a solution. 

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2019-08-13/20190813_222722.jpg"  %}

#### Thoughts and notes
So this gel electrophoresis attempt was a bit of a failure to put it lightly. Hilarious because gel electrophoresis is pretty simple as far as lab techniques go. 
* Buffer should be the same buffer used in making the gel. So in this case .5X TBE, maybe 1X TBE. Definitely not 5X TBE. This is probably why the buffer was foaming and really hot. Additionally, because the buffer was more dense than the DNA samples and the ladder which explains why they immediately flowed out of the gel wells when pipetted there. 
* My calculations for the ethidium bromide solution were probably off. Also, if I do try to stain a gel, I should not let it soak so long if it is a thin gel. 
* A note from two failed earlier gels, 40 mL is about right for making a nice gel. 80 mL makes a gel that is way too thick. 
