---
title: "Lab notebook entry 1"
layout: posts

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204322.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204322.jpg
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204612.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204612.jpg
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204619.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204619.jpg
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204623.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204623.jpg
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_205202.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_205202.jpg
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_205834.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_205834.jpg
  - url: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_205844.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_205844.jpg
  
---
 {% include toc %}

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_203216.jpg" alt="this is a placeholder image" caption="This is a figure caption." %}

## Experiment 1: Anesthetizing cuke

### Materials and Reagents

 | Qty| unit | Item                    | Qty| unit   | Item               |
 | ---| ---  |  ---                    | ---| ---    |                --- |
 | .5 | grams| menthol                 |  3 | handful| ice                |
 | 1  | liter| of Artificial sea water |  2 | liter  | glass beaker       |
 | 1  |      |stir plate and stir bar  |    |        |                    |

### Protocol:
1. .5 grams of menthol was placed in 1 liter of sea water
2. beaker of menthol/sea water solution was placed on a stir plate for 10 mins and stirred at 1500 rpm using a small stir bar
3. Ice was added to the water
4. Sea cucumber is placed in beaker and allowed to sit for 30 minutes or until unresponsive to proddings

{% include figure image_path="assets/images/4-25-19/20190425_204305.jpg" alt="this is a placeholder image" caption="This is a figure caption." %}

#### Notes:
Two sea cucumbers were subjected to this protocol: ~15 cm and ~40 cm long. No strong reaction was detected when placed in the solution. I did notice that the large cuke maintained a normal respiration rate by observing the anal sphincter contraction and relaxation frequency. When poked or handled they would respond with some mild body contractions or movements. When picked up they would contract and retain some regidiity but shortly would relax completely. 

## Experiment 2: Surgery

### Materials and Reagents

 | Qty| unit | Item                    | Qty| unit   | Item               |
 | ---| ---  |  ---                    | ---| ---    |                --- |
 | 1  | | scapel            | 1| | thread                |
 | 1  | | surgical scissors | 1 |  | curved needle       |
 | 1  | | forceps   | 1 |        |  large and small centrifuge tubes   |
 | 1  | | surgircal spatula |  1  |        | dissection tray                   |
 
### Protocol:
1. take cuke out of anesthetizing solution and place on dissection tray
2. test reaction by poking a few times. If cuke responds slowly and appears generally relaxed, proceed to step 3
3. pick cuke up in one hand, with the other hand use the pointy side of the scissors to pierce pody wall about 5-8 cms posterior to head on the dorsal side of the cuke
4. once the body wall has been completely pierced, proceed to cut a 2-4 cm hole in the body wall
5. Gonads and other internal organs should pour out of the cut
6. Remove the gonads and place in centrifuge tube
7. push the other organs back into the cuke's body cavity
8. peirce one side of the cut with the curved needle
9. pull needle and thread through until only 5- 10 cms of thread remain
10. pierce the other side of the cut with the same needle and repeatd step 9
11. tie a overhand knot and cinch would closed
12. tie 2-3 more overhand knots and cut remaining thread
13. repeat steps 8-12 until no holes are visible and prodding reveals no other holes
14. place cuke back in aquaria

#### notes:
specimen 1 (the small cuke) lacked any internal organs. This was probably the cuke which evisercated in the aquaria. It also means it was a female. The cuke was stitched back up and retained for observations on recovery after surgery. Specimen 2 (one of the large cukes) had a lot of gonads which poured out after make the initial cuke. Only a little of the gut and respiratory tree came out and we were able to push it back in without much problem. Throughout the surgery process both cukes were moving and not happy. However, the combination of cold water and menthol apparently was enough to prevent evisercation or movement such that it prevented cutting and stitching. 

## Experiment 3: Sperm Extraction

### Materials and Reagents

| Qty| unit | Item              |Qty| unit| Item                |
 | ---| ---  |  ---             |---| --- |                 --- |
 | 1  | | small plastic funnel  | 1 |     | nylon panty hose    |
 | 1  | | centrifuge tube       | 1 |     | rubber band         |
 | 1  | | test tube rack        | 1 |     | surgical spatula    |
 | 1  | | 1 mm plastic mesh     |   | | |

### Protocol
1. place mesh over funnel and rubberband it tightly on
2. place funnel into centrifuge tube
3. place testes on mesh and mash with spatula
4. repeat with nylon mesh and freshly mashed sperm extract from steps 1-3

#### notes:
The testes epithelial tissue is fairly resilient. However, some tissue does end up in the sample so gentle mashing might be better then the more thorough mashing we have applied so far

## Experiment 4: Sperm Microscopy

### Materials and Reagents

| Qty| unit | Item                    | Qty| unit   | Item               |
 | ---| ---  |  ---                    | ---| ---    |                --- |
 | 1 | | nigrosin staining solution  |  2 | | glass microscope slide and cover slip                |
 | 1  | | methylene blue staining solution| 12 | | plastic 1.7 ml pipettes       |
 | 1  | | standard compound microscope |    |        |                    |

### Protocol

#### Methylene blue
1. place one drop of diluted sperm extract on slide
2. place one drop of methylene blue extract on sperm drop
3. place cover slide on drop 
4. let sit for 5 minutes
5. place drop of DI water next to cover slip so that capillary action sucks it in
6. use tissue paper to blot the sides of the cover slide and absord excess fluid
7. view under microscope

#### Nigrosin negative staining
1. place drop of nigrosin on slide
2. place drop of dilute sperm extract on nigrosin drop
3. mix
4. place cover slide on mixed drops
5. view under microscope

#### notes:
Methylene blue staining revealed a lot of very dense and spherical nuclei which I suspect might be sperm. Hard to see any flagella. Nigrosin staying revealed nothing. I believe I am doing this technique wrong. Next time I will try fixing the sperm to the slide via gentle heat and drying before adding nigrosin. It'd be really nice to be able to say for this is sperm we are seeing

{% include gallery caption="Photos taken over the course of the experiments" %}
