---
title: "29-07-19 Lab Notebook Entry"
---

## Purpose:
DNA extraction and purification

### Materials and Reagents

|qty|unit|reagents|
|---|---|---|
|4||phase lock gel centrifuge tubes|
|1200|microliters| PBS|
|1|mL|TLB|
|200|microliters|lysis buffer|
|1|mL|gonad extract|
|1.5|mL|TE-saturated phenol|
|.5|mL|chloroform|
|3| mL| absolute ethanol|
|100| microliters|NaOAc|

### Equipment

|qty|item|
|---|---|
|1|shaker|
|1|centrifuge|
|1|15 mL falcon tube|
|2|centrifuge tube|
|4|light phase lock gel tubes|
|1|fume hood|
|1|water bath|

### Protocol
1. pipette 500 microliters of gonad extract in to two centrifuge tubes
2. centrifuge tubes @5k rpm for 3.5 mins
3. pipette off supernatent in both tubes
4. add 200 microliters PBS to each tube
5. vortex both tubes for 5 seconds 
6. centrifuge 1 min @5k rpm
7. pipette off supernatent in both tubes
8. repeat steps 3-7
9. add 500 microliters TLB and 100 microliters old lysis buffer from agarose plug extraction attempts
10. Incubate @50 C for 2 hrs
11. add 500 microliters of lysate to two light phase lock gel tubes each
12. add 500 microliters TE saturated phenol to each tube
13. tubes were placed on shaker 60 rpm/10 min
14. tubes were then gently shaken to further mix the solution
15. centrifuged for 10 min@ 5k rpm
16. aqueous phase then transfered to two new light phase tubes
17. added fresh 250 microliter of phenol and 250 microliters of chloroform
18. shaker 5 min @ 150 rpm
19. centrifuged 10 min @ 5k rpm
20. combined aqueous phases into one tube
21. add 3 ml absolute ethanol
22. add 100 microliters freshly made sodium acetate 

### Notes
1. phase lock gels did not work and centrifuge speeds were increased until they did or new phase lock tube were used
2. shakers speeds were increased but no emulsion formed, so tubes were gently shaken until emulsified
3. no ammonium acetate, so sodium acetate was used. 
4. sodium acetate was added after ethanol was added
5. more than 3 mL of absolute ethanol were used. eventually, total was ~6 mL

### Results and conclusion
1. solution became slightly opaque, but nothing coalesced. Salt may have precipated, but not visible DNA
2. Need to figure out why DIY light phase lock gels do not work consistently
3. I wonder how centrifuging at higher speeds affects DNA
4. lysate was incubated for several more hours while the experiment was happening and then was placed in the freezer for further use

