---
title: "22-08-19 Lab Notebook Entry"
---

## Purpose:
DNA extraction, precipitation, and QC

### DNA Extraction

#### Materials and Reagents

|Qty|unit|Material|
|---|---|---|
|4||PLG tubes|
|1.3|mL|TE saturated Phenol|
|1|mL|Lysate|
|.7|mL|Chloroform|
|1||15 mL falcon tube|

|Equipment|
|---|
|shaker|
|1uL-10mL micropipettes|
|centrifuge|

#### Steps
1. centrifuge phase lock tubes 1 min @ 14k rpm 
2. 500 uL lysate added to 2 phase lock gel tubes using cut off 1mL pipette tip
3. 400 uL phenol added to each tube
4. inverted gently several times
5. shaker 10 min @ 100 rpm
6. inverted gently
7. cent. 5 min @ 4k rpm
  > white foamy material at phase boundary, gel did not move
8. added 100 uL chloroform 
9. inverted gently
10. shaker 10 min @ 100 rpm
11. centrifuge 10 min @ 5k rpm  
  > organic phase moved below gel. White foam is also underneath gel. Did not completely seal the layers in one of the tubes. One of the tubes had a small fibrous thing floating in the aqueous phase. Possible protein contamination? 
12. Centrifuge new phase lock gel tubes 1 min @ 14k rpm
13. poured aqueous phase into new phase tubes
  > Some phenol slipped pass gel into the aqueous phase during transfer. 
14. added 250 uL phenol and 250 uL chloroform to each tube
15. shaker 10 min @ 100 rpm
16. centrifuge 10 min @ 5 k rpm
  > looks beautiful
17. combine aqueous phases into 15 mL falcon tube. Estimated total volume by adding aqueous phases into centrifuge tube with volume markings.
  > estimated total aqueous layer volume ~ 1 mL

### DNA Precipitation using ammonium acetate

#### Materials and Reagents

|Qty|unit|material|
|---|---|---|
|.5|mL|5M ammonium acetate|
|3|mL|Ice cold absolute ethanol|
|3|mL| 70% Ice cold absolute ethanol|
|3||centrifuge tubes|
|1|mL|Extracted DNA sample|

|Equipment|
|---|
|centrifuge|
|1uL-10mL micropipettes|


#### Steps

1. added .5 volume 5M ammonium acetate.
  > ~ .5 mL, total volume ~1.5 mL
2. added 2 volumes Ice cold Absolute Ethanol
  > ~3 mL, total volume ~4.5 mL
3. Split into 3 centriuge tubes with 1.5 mL in each
4. centrifuge 5 min @ 5k rpm
5. poured off supernatent into centrifuge tubes 
  > kept supernatent
6. added 1 mL 70% ice cold ethanol
7. centrifuge 5 min @ 10k rpm
8. repeated wash with 70% ethanol
9. poured off ethanol
10. air dried and also pipetted off remaining liquid
11. added 100 uL elution buffer

### Gel Electrophoresis

#### Materials and Reagents

|qty|unit|material|
|---|---|---|
|.4|g|Agarose|
|40|mL| .5x TBE|
|.8|uL| Ethidium Bromide - stock solution|

|Equipment|
|---|
|gel tray and parts|
|electrophoresis power supply|
|1uL-10mL micropipettes|
|UV emitter machine|

#### Protocol

1. mix agarose and TBE
2. nuke 1 min
  > microwave stops ~10 secs before timer goes off  
  > use 150 mL beaker so it doesn't boil over  
3. add .8 uL EtBr and mix/swirl
4. pour gel and let cool
5. added samples and ladder to gel wells
6. ran gel at 100 volts 

#### Gel layout

|Lane|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|qty|5 uL|1 uL|1 uL|1 uL|1 uL|1 uL|1 uL|
|sample|ladder|#1|#2|#3|Lysate 1|Lysate 2| DPW 3||

Time:
* start: 1740
* check: 1810
* start: 1812
* check: 1842

#### Results and Thoughts

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2019-08-22/20190822_184241.jpg"  %}

* Lane 7 was blank
* 2-6 had smears starting @ 10 kb and becoming bright @ .3 kb
* 5 and 6 had a band in the well where DNA/Cells were stuck

The extracted/washed DNA was present but highly fragmented and quite small. The lysate also contained quite a bit of fragmented DNA as indicated by the smear. However, there was some HMW DNA stuck in the gel wells. The discarded precipitation waste ethanol solution unfortunately did not stay in the gel well (no surprise) so I was unable to figure out how large the DNA in that solution was. 

### Nanodrop DNA Concentration Quantification

#### 21-08-19 samples

|sample|replicate #|A260|A260/280|DNA conc (ng/uL)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|#1-19-08|1|.437|.01|21.8|
||2|.274|.01|13.7|
|#2-21-08-19|1|1.465|.03|73.2|
||2|1.280|.02|64.0|
|#3-21-08-19|1|-.101|.02|-5.1|

#### 22-08-19 samples

|sample|replicate #|A260|A260/280|DNA conc (ng/uL)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|#1-22-19|1|29.026|1.92|1451.3|
||2|3.451|.06|172.6|
||3|1.124|.02|56.2|
||4|.229|.01|11.4|
|#2-22-8-19|1|-.126|.01|-6.3|
||2|.456|.01|22.8|

> same results for the third sample as the first two 22-08-19 DNA extracted samples. As in, basically nothing, very contaminated, and sometimes negative

#### Results from Ethanol used to preciptate dna in 22-08-19 samples 

|sample|replicate #|A260|A260/280|DNA conc (ng/uL)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|DPW-1|1|40.605|1.59|2030.3|
||2|40.847|1.60|2042.4|
|DPW-2|1|40.271|1.56|2013.6|
||2|40.724||2036.2|
|DPW-3|1|41.518|1.61|2075.9|

### Thoughts and Summary
21-08-19 samples had protein contamination and very little DNA present  

22-08-19 samples also had high levels of protein contamination and very little DNA present, however, the discarded precipating waste ethanol had high concentration of DNA with some protein contamination. Ethanol should not affect the spectrometer results as it doesn't fluoresce at those wave lengths. This suggests a few things to me, first is that the salt molecules are not interacting with the DNA in solution, meaning some other molecule is still bound to the DNA preventing interaction of the negatively charged molecules of DNA with the positive charge of the salt cations thus preventing precipitation of DNA.   

Additionally, the gel results also suggest that the DNA is either already highly degraded by the time it is extracted. However, there is some high molecular weight DNA but that is disppearing during either the extraction or precipitation step.   

After realizing the DNA was staying in solution in ethanol I tried precipitating again using sodium acetate. The results were the same. As in, it turned the white opaque and cloudy, but nothing resembling DNA appeared. This in combination with the nanodrop and gel results suggests several things  

* DNA is being degraded during lysis
* DNA is being fragmented during extraction
* DNA is not preciptating out of ethanol wash
* freeze/thaw of the sperm extract/lysate may be degrading DNA

#### Centrifuging 
I should know better, but centrifuge rpm is not the same cnetrifuging at specific G's. This is important because most protocols give instructions using xg as a way to standardize units across machines. The actual spin gravity involves speed and the length of the rotor arm. Manufactures sometime post conversion charts, but if those can't be found, one can take a few quick measurements are figure out. That said, the machine I have been using is the VWR 1816 and has a rotor length of 7.3 cm.   
1000 rpm = 82 g  
10,000 rpm = 8161 g  

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2019-08-22/20190822_133854.jpg"  %}
