---
title: "02-05-2019 Lab Notebook Entry"
---

## Purpose
Make more reagents for DNA extraction, embed sperm cells in plug, and incubate in lysis buffer

### PMSF

#### Materials and Reagents

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|14.35|ml|Isopropanol|
|250|mg|PMSF|

#### Protocol
Added 14.35 ml of isopropanol to the original container of PMSF

#### Notes
I used a 1000 microliter pipette to add the isopropanol. may have lost count and the concentration may be off by 1 ml isoproponal, give or take. silly me.

### TE
|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|~1|L| DI water|
|2|ml|EDTA (.5M)|
|10|ml|Tris-HCl|

#### Protocol
1 liter was marked on bottle using water from graduated cylinder. EDTA and Tris-HCl were added to DI water and DI water was added to the marked line.
Then the solution was split between 2 1 liter bottles for autoclaving. Soltuion was autoclaved for 15 mins at 121 Celsius

### Lysis Solution

#### Materials and Reagents

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|3| ml| EDTA (1 M)|
|3| ml| 2% w\v SLS|
|1.8|mg| proteinase K|

#### Protocol
Add all the reagents into a small bottle and swirl

### Making Plugs

#### Materials and Reagents

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
| .01009| g| low melting point agarose |
| 10 | ml| PBS solution|
| 50| microliters| sperm solution per a plug|
| 6 | tubes| pcr/centrifuge tubes|
| 1 | item | glue gun and glue stick|

#### Protocol
LMP agarose and PBS were added to a tiny beaker and heated to boiling on a hot plate. While agarose solution was being made,
 the ends of pcr and centrifuge tubes were cut off and the opening covered with a dab of hot glue to seal it shut. Additionally, the sperm 
 solution was placed in a hot bath in order to warm it up prior to mixing with agarose, then centrifuged and washed twice with PBS. 
 Once the agarose was dissolved 50 microliters of the solution was added to modified tubes. The sperm solution was briefly vortexed and 
 50 microliters of that was then mixed with the agarose solution in the centrifuge tubes using a pipette tip. The plugs were allowed to
 set in ice or in the freezer until solidified. Plugs were removed by peeling off the glue on the end of the modified tubes and using
 a pasteur pipette to push the plug out.
 
 #### Notes

* PBS was still hot when used for washing sperm. 
* Agarose concentrations for gel were calculated using a gel calculator on a cal poly website. 
* Remember to open the plug mold tube before removing glue from the tub end. Otherwise the plug will pop out.
* Centrifuge tube works best for making plug mold
* Might leave plugs in the modified tubes until it is time to extract the DNA

### Adding Lysis Buffer and Incubating 

#### Materials and Reagents

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
| 6 | ml| lysis buffer |
| 6 | | plugs|

#### Protocols

1. PBS solution is removed from plug tube
2. 1 ml lysis buffer is added to each tube
3. plugs are placed in a shaking incubator with settings of ~ 2 for speed and temp of 50 C

#### Notes
An erlenmyer flask was used in the incubator. Some tissue stuff into the top and the tubes were placed in the tissue paper
