---
title: "07-08-19 Lab Notebook Entry"
---

## Purpose:
DNA extraction and purification: Second Attempt

### Materials and Reagents
 
|qty|unit|reagents|
|---|---|---|
|4||phase lock gel centrifuge tubes|
|1200|microliters| PBS|
|1|mL|TLB|
|200|microliters|lysis buffer|
|1|mL|gonad extract|
|1.5|mL|TE-saturated phenol|
|.5|mL|chloroform|
|3| mL| absolute ethanol|
|100| microliters|NH3OAc|

|qty|equipment|
|---|---|
|1|shaker|
|1|centrifuge|
|1|15 mL falcon tube|
|2|centrifuge tube|
|4|light phase lock gel tubes|
|1|fume hood|
|1|water bath|

___5M Ammonium Acetate preparation___

Molecular Weight: 77.08 g/mol
Desired Vol: 500 mL
Desired Conc: 5 M

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|125.39 + 67.32|g|NH3OAc|
|500|mL|H2O|

___EB solution minus Triton X100___

For 10mM Tris-HCl

|qty|unit|reagent|
|---|---|---|
|150|microliter|1M tris-HCl|
|14.85|mL|H2O|

### Protocol
1. ~500 microliters each added to two phase lock tubes
2. shaker: 60 rpm/10 min
> No emulsion observed. Increase speed to 150 rpm for 10 additional min
3. Cent. 5k rpm for 10 min
> Phase lock gel did not separate phases. set rpm to 9k for another 10 min
> 9k rpm did not work. transfered solution to 2 new phase lock gels
4. Cent. 5k rpm for 10 min
> gel moved, but didn't seal.
> Made new light phase lock tubes by adding vacuum grease to new cent. tubes and centrifuged at unknown speeds for ~5 min.
> Cent. @5k rpm for 10 mins, didn't work
> cent. @10k rpm for 10 mins, almost worked
> cent. @13k rpm for 5 mins
5. aqeuous phases transfered to two new phase lock gel tubes
6. shaker 150 rpm for 10 min, then gently mixed by inverting tubes
7. cent. 20 min @5k rpm
8. combined tubes into cent. tube, total ~.75 mL, then transfered to 15 ml falcon tube
9. added 5M NH3OAc at half volume ~.35 mL
10. added 3 volumves ice cold absolute ethanol. ~ 3 mL
> ethanol was placed in -20 C freezer a few minutes earlier
> solution turned opaque immediately. precipated DNA looked fragmented and small
> the solution at the very bottom of the falcon tube was clear, leftover phenol or something else?
11. DNA fragments fished out using hooked pastuer pipette and added to cent. tube with 1 mL ice cold 70% absolutele ethanol
12. a 1000 microliter pipette with tip cut off used to pipette out 1 mL of falcon tube and transferred to cent. tube. 
13. cent. 10k rpm for 10 min
14. pipetted off supernatent and added 1 mL ice cold 70% absolute ethanol
15. cent 10 min @ 10k rpm
16. pipetted supernatent and air dried for ~15 min
17. Added 100 microliters EB solution to each tube
> stored in 4 C fridge
> did not let ethanol completely evaporate

### Notes
1. Started with lyzed cells from previous attempt
2. used prot k solution prepared last spring and has been froozen at -20 C and thawed several times


### Results and conclusion
1. solution became slightly opaque, but nothing coalesced. Salt may have precipated, but not visible DNA
2. Need to figure out why DIY light phase lock gels do not work consistently
3. I wonder how centrifuging at higher speeds affects DNA
4. lysate was incubated for several more hours while the experiment was happening and then was placed in the freezer for further use

