---
title: "08-08-2019 Lab Notebook Entry"
---

## Purpose:
DNA extraction: Third Attempt

### Materials and Reagents
 
|qty|unit|reagents|
|---|---|---|
|4||phase lock gel centrifuge tubes|
|2.6|mL| PBS|
|1.5|mL|TLB|
|400|microliters|lysis buffer|
|2|mL|gonad extract|
|1.5|mL|TE-saturated phenol|
|.5|mL|chloroform|
|4.5| mL| absolute ethanol|
|.5| mL|NH3OAc|

### Equipment

|qty|item|
|---|---|
|1|shaker|
|1|centrifuge|
|1|15 mL falcon tube|
|2|centrifuge tube|
|4|light phase lock gel tubes|
|1|fume hood|
|1|water bath|

### Experiment
1. Cuke gonad extract thawed in water bath  
2. 1 mL extract placed in each of 2 tubes  
3. Centriuged 10 mins @ 4k rpm  
4. Supernatent removed and 400 uL PBS added and tube vortexed 5 seconds  
5. Step 3 and 4 repeated two more times and  
6. 100 uL PBS added  
7. 750 uL TLB added, tubes vortexed 10 secs, and solution incubated @ 37 C for 1 hr
8. vortexed briefly
> there was still color and clumped cells
9. Added 200 uL prot K to solution
> Note: Prot. K was from old stock that has been frozen and thawed multiple times. Also Prot. K solution has Sodium lauryl Sarcosine in it. 
10. gently mixed by inverting tube several times at +1 hr and again +3 hrs later
11. Incubated overnight
12. phase lock tubes centrifuged @14 k rpm for 1 minute
13. Cut off tip of 1000 uL pipette tip and used it to aliquot 500 uL of lysate into each phase lock tube (2)
14. Added 500 uL TE saturated phenol
15. inverted tubes 3 times
16. put on shaker @ 150 rpm for 10 minutes
17. Inverted tubes 4 times gently
18. Centrifuged 15 minutes @ 5k rpm
> didn't work
19. Centrifuged 20 min @ 6k rpm
20. Centrifuged 5 min @ 8k rpm
21. Centrifuged 10 min @ 10k rpm
> None of the previous centrifuge attempts worked
22. cut off pipette tip and pipetted ~500 uL of aqueous phase from each tube to two new phase lock gels
23. added 250 uL chloroform and 250 uL phenol to each tube and gently inverted tubes 3 times
24. shaker for 10 min @ 150 rpm
25. Centrifuged 10 minutes 6k rpm 
> phase lock gel worked
26. Combined aqueous phases in 15 mL Falcon tube
> Estimated volume of combined aqueous phase is ~1 mL 
27. Added half volume 5 M  ammonium acetate, ~ .5 mL
28. gently mixed by inverting tubes
29. added 3 volumes Ice cold absolute ethanol. ~4.5 mL
> Solution turned cloudy immediately, but no obvious DNA precipate observed. 
30. 1 mL solution added each to two centrifuge tubes
31. Centrifuged 2 min @ 10k rpm. 
> nothing visible 

### Thoughts
* I think the DNA is not visibly precipating into concentrated strands for a few reasons
   1. DNA is too fragmented from centrifuge or other fragmenting steps
   2. Concentration/ratio of salt/ethanol is off
   3. I am assuming the white cloudiness is either salt precipitating or very fragmented DNA. Haven't tried to figure it out. 
* DIY phase lock gel tubes are still not working consistently. 
  1. something about the tubes and the consistency of the grease is inconsistent
  2. The extra bits in the lysate that end up in the phenol decrease the density of the phenol such that the grease is denser 
  3. the extra lysate bits in the phenol prevent the phenol from migrating through the gel

I am planning on remaking the Ammonium Acetate stock solution. Ammonium acetate is a strange solution to make. The ammonium acetate increases the volume above the volume goal. IE 500 mL stock solution turned into 700 mL solution when 192.7g Ammonium acetate was added to 400 mL of water. My chemistry is a little rusty, so I am not sure how that changes the solution concentration. 
  
I am not sure what to do about the phase lock gel tubes. It is important to get them to work because pipetting the aqueous phase results in shearing of the DNA and smaller fragments and also increases the potential for phenol and protein contamination of the DNA solution

