---
title: "06-24-2019 Lab Notebook Entry"

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_173918.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_173918.jpg
    title: "Sea Cucumber Holding Tank"
  - url: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_182309.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_182309.jpg
    title: "The cuke selected for genome sequencing" 
  - url: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_191546.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_191546.jpg
    title: "Epic image in the sun light" 
  - url: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_193127.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_193127.jpg
    title: "The selected cuke post surgery" 
  - url: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_222925.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_222925.jpg
    title: "Hermaphroditic Sea Cuke?" 
  - url: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_224728.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/2019-06-24/20190624_224728.jpg
    title: "Gonads collected from the selected cuke. Gonads were white and male"

---

## Purpose:
Choose a *Parastichopus californicus* sea cucumber that will have its genome sequenced, surgically remove its gonads and ship 2 mls of gonad tissue to Novogene for sequencing. 

### Sea Cucumber collection and selection

Two divers collected 7 sea cucumbers from depths of 30-60 feet along Sares Head at Sharpe Park in Skagit county Washington. These were placed in buckets and taken to the marine station where they were kept in holding tanks until selection. The first two cukes were selected for gonad removal based on what were percieved to be "normal" characteristics such as color and shape.

### Anesthesia and Surgery

1. Cuke was anesthestized in diluted menthol/ethanol solution as per the anesthesia protocol for 30 minutes each or until flacid
2. Cuke had gonads removed as per the cuke gonad removal surgery protocol. Thread was 1.5 meters of silk 4/0 with a 3/8" reverse cutting 17 mm long circle needle
3. Cuke was returned to a different holding tank than undissected cukes

### Results

1. 20 ml of gonads were collected from the first cuke. I was expecting close to 100 ml of gonads to be harvested
2. 4 more cukes were dissected and found to have empty gonads. I think spawning had already happened
3. Found one cuke which might be a hermaphrodite
4. After finding no more full gonads I removed ~ 2 grams of gonads from the initial 20 ml and placed it in a 2 ml centrifuge tube for shipping. I then flash froze both gonad storage stubes in liquid nitrogen for ~30 seconds and stored them in the -80 C freezer until shipping

### Shipping and returning to Walla Walla University
Novogene was contacted and shipping arranged. The 2 mL centrifuge tube was stuffed into a 50 ml falcon tube with padding and then placed in a styrofoam shipping container with 10 lbs dry ice and overnight fedex'd to their facility in sacromento. The remaining ~18 mL were kept in the -80 C freezer until I returned to walla walla a few weeks later. The tube was kept in two nested styrofoam containers with dry ice in both until I arrived at walla walla and put the tube in the -80 freezer.  

{% include gallery %}
